---
title: II.Research Questions
type: book  # Do not modify.
toc: true
---
Several questions still need to be answered to assess the feasibility of such an ambitious intervention within the current socio-economic, environmental, and political context. The key question is: What are the opportunities and challenges for wood-based urban infrastructure in Nepal with respect to disaster risk reduction? This broad question should be approached through a set of specific studies building on each other to be conducted in phases: 

## 1.	Value chains and production capacity
   Do forests in Nepal have the capacity to meet the potential demand for wood-based infrastructure in urban areas? 
    1.1.	What is the potential scale of demand for wood-based infrastructure to reduce earthquake risk in urban infrastructure in Nepal?
      1.1.1.	Who are the key stakeholders (market, government, and international development partners) that can support the future of a wood-based infrastructure related industry?
      1.1.2.	What are the knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) of key stakeholders toward wood-based infrastructure for disaster risk reduction of urban environments?
      1.1.3.	What key urban infrastructures can/should be developed through wood-based infrastructure?
      1.1.4.	What are competing uses of wood (e.g. wood for heating, cooking and overall energy generation, e.g. electricity)?
    1.2.	Given the stated national policy to maintain 40% forest cover in perpetuity, how will demand for wood-based infrastructure influence this goal? 
      1.2.1.	What are the current forest resources, their use in urban infrastructure development and associated supply chain? 
      1.2.2.	What species are available and can be used for wood-based infrastructure? Of what quality, quantity and in what locations and how accessible are they?
      1.2.3.	What additional actions (reforestation. afforestation, including import of timber etc.) and technologies will be needed to meet the potential demand for wood-based infrastructure? 

## 2.	Policies
   What policy (construction, environmental, forestry, disaster risk reduction, market) opportunities and challenges lie in enabling wood-based infrastructure?
  2.1.	 What are the opportunities and challenges across international, national and regional policies associated to environment and forest resource management in Nepal’s context? 
  2.2.	What are the opportunities and challenges associated to wood and bamboo based local, regional, national and international market policies in Nepal?
  2.3.	What will the net greenhouse gas savings /climate benefits of wood-based infrastructure be compared to the alternative?
  2.4.	How much will the net energy savings be?
  2.5.	What institutions and policies should enable effective and just nature-based solutions (NBS)?

## 3.	Economics and livelihoods
   What is the potential revenue enhancement (livelihood opportunities) for forestry user groups through wood-based industries?
  3.1.	What are current revenues generated by local and state forestry user groups through the sale of wood resources for construction and other purposes?
  3.2.	Based on additional demand and market conditions for wood-based infrastructure, what extra revenue can be generated with a particular focus on user groups?

## 4.	Opportunities and barriers
   What opportunities and challenges exist for enabling such specific wood as CLT-based urban infrastructure in Nepal?
  4.1.	What is the knowledge attitudes and practices (KAP) of stakeholders for CLT-based infrastructure in Nepal’s cities?
  4.2.	What is the current technical capacity of the workforce in engaging with wood-based infrastructure?
  4.3.	What are the minimum operating scales and the demand for specific engineering wood-based CLT to become viable in Nepal?
  4.4.	What is the spatial distribution and location of wood resources (supply shed) for engineered wood?
  4.5.	What knowledge of wood properties and processing techniques for timber species can facilitate value adding?
  4.6.	What practices and production efficiencies can be introduced to the existing and/or new timber processing sector?
  4.7.	Assessment of the technical capacity to actually build more risk-safe houses using wood (compared to cement/stones).
